Hey everyone, welcome back to the
channel. Today we're going to break down
another really common low-level design
interview question. This time it's going
to be Amazon locker. Another one that's
on the on the easier side, but is really
commonly asked at Amazon in particular.
And so you'll see how I would answer
this question, as well as how I, as an
interviewer, think through evaluating
candidates as they answer this question.
Now, for those of you who are new here
quickly, I'm Evan. I'm a former
Metastaff engineer and the current
co-founder of Hello Interview. Hello
interview is a platform that helps
software engineers just like you prepare
for their upcoming interviews. And so we
have everything that you could need from
system design, ML system design,
low-level design, as we're talking about
today, code, behavioral, salary
negotiation. You go down the list. Tons
of content, videos, the overwhelming
majority of which is free. So come over
to the site and check it out. Uh for
this particular problem, if videos are
not your thing, you can come here and
read our written breakdown. We walk
through everything that we're talking
about here today as well as proper uh
implementations
uh in each of the core languages. So you
can come check that out. Um of course if
you like what we're doing here, please
like and subscribe. I always forget to
say that, but I should say that right
out of the gate. Uh all right, let's get
after it.
Before we dive in, let's just quickly
touch on the framework that we're going
to follow both in this YouTube video as
well as the framework that I suggest you
use for all of your upcoming low-level
design interviews. And the goal of this
framework or any framework really is to
keep you focused and on track while
ensuring that you touch on all of the
most important things and don't end up
running out of time in what is a short
interview typically. So, the first step
in any low-level design interview is to
cover the requirements. You're going to
spend some time here engaging in a back
and forth with your interviewer in order
to understand exactly what it is that
you're building and have an agreed upon
set of requirements that's going to take
you forward. From there, you want to
model the entities and their
relationships. This is basically asking
like what are the nouns of my system?
What are the things that I'm going to
want to model as classes or enums moving
forward? And then with those in hand,
you can move on to your class design in
order to take those entities, go through
them one by one using your requirements
to derive both the state and the
behavior for each one of your entities
or each one of your classes. And then in
this case, state is just the things that
you need to remember in order to enforce
the the requirements. And the behavior
uh is what the class needs to be able to
do. Basically, the functions you're kind
of creating the interface for the code.
And then you can move on to number four.
Well, with that class design in hand, we
need to actually go implement it. And
so, this is different by each company
and each region. Some companies or the
majority of companies just prefer pseudo
code here instead of actual code.
They're worried more about your design
choices than your syntax. For this
video, that's what we'll do. We'll focus
on pseudo code and keep it language
agnostic. Um, but for the full
implementation, Java, Python,
TypeScript, other languages, they're all
available in the written breakdown
that's going to be linked in the
description. So, if that's what you're
after, go check that out there. And then
finally, in your little design
interview, if time permits, you tackle
extensibility. And so, these are just
follow-up questions about how the design
could evolve. Uh, I'll cover what some
of the most popular ones are for this
particular question as we get to the
end.
Okay, that's enough with all of the
setup. Now, I want you to imagine that
you just walked into your first
low-level design interview and you were
greeted with this prompt on the
whiteboard. Design a locker system like
Amazon Locker where delivery drivers can
deposit packages and customers can pick
them up using a code. Quickly, if you're
not familiar with Amazon Locker, I don't
think it's in all parts of the world.
Here's what it is. It's basically this
self-s serve kiosk that you can use to
schedule picking up your packages. So,
instead of waiting for a home delivery
from Amazon, you can say you'd like it
delivered at one of these lockers.
They're kind of positioned all over the
city. The driver comes up, a door opens,
they put your package in, they close it,
and then they send you a code, you come
with that code at some later date. You
type it in, the the door opens, and you
can take your package. So, if you live
in uh, you know, some location that it's
not safe to deliver packages, this is
oftent times what ends up being used.
Um, now back to the interview. You might
have gotten this prompt and some of you
might be thinking, okay, I heard that I
know exactly what to do. Let me get
coding. Um, but but please don't Uh the
vague wording here is actually
intentional. Your interviewer wants to
see if you have the ability to ask
clarifying questions in order to hone in
on a final set of requirements. This is
actually referred to as the quote
unquote problem analysis. And it's
explicitly something that your
interviewer is evaluating you on. So at
the end of the interview, they're going
to go through a set of criteria. One of
such criteria is your ability to kind of
break down the problem and define a
clear set of requirements from it. So
you don't want to skip this part. You
want to ask some questions. Candidates
usually ask me, well, how do I know what
questions to ask? I never really know
what to ask. And my answer to them is
that you should focus on three key
categories. The first is the primary
capabilities of the system. The second
is any error handling of the system. And
the third is any scope boundaries.
What's in scope? What's out of scope?
And so in this particular question here,
or in this particular problem, maybe
it's an overused question. Here's a set
of questions that I might ask. I'm going
to paste them in so you don't see me
type them all.
Cool. Okay. Um, so your primary
capabilities, you might ask your
interviewer, are there different sized
compartments? As your interviewer, I
would answer yes. There's there's small,
medium, and large, and you should put
the package in the right size
compartment. What about how does the
customer get their code? Do we need to
send them an SMS or an email? We'll say
that's out of scope, right? You just
return the code. Whatever the parent
function is that ends up calling you
will end up getting the code to the
user. For error handling, we could ask,
can one customer have multiple packages
in the system at once? Uh, to which, as
your interviewer would say, yes, they
can, but they'd all have their own
individual access token in their own
individual compartment. Easy enough. And
then how long do the codes last? Do they
ever expire if someone doesn't pick it
up? Let's say after 7 days, they expire.
And then after that expiration, then
staff can come back and grab that
package, maybe bring it back to the
warehouse or whatever it may be. Uh and
then what if all compartments of a given
size are full when the driver tries to
deposit it? Let's just throw an error in
this case. Lastly, we can ask further
about scope. What's in scope for the
system? Are we modeling the whole
delivery flow or just the pieces where
the driver arrives at the locker until
the customer picks it up? As your
interviewer would respond, it's just
that part at the end. It's just when the
driver gets the locker to when the
customer picks it up. Everything else is
out of scope and and managed by some
higher order service. And so once you've
asked all of those questions, you should
have been taking notes the whole time.
And you'll eventually be able to land on
a set of kind of clear requirements
here. I'll paste them in so you don't
see me type it. The clear requirements
that we have are five things. First, the
driver, the carrier deposits a package
by specifying the size. When they do
this, the specific compartment is going
to open so that they can put it in. And
then it's also going to return that
access code so that some other parent
service can send that via SMS or email
to the user. After they successfully
deposit, that access token is generated.
That's what we just mentioned. Maybe
that's a bit redundant there. The user
is then going to retrieve their package
by entering that access token. Uh, and
then that door is going to open and
they'll be able to take their package.
We mentioned that access tokens expire
after 7 days and that there's that staff
component there where they come in every
per every so often and clear out um the
compartments that have expired access
tokens. out of scope, how it got to the
locker in the first place, the delivery,
the logistics, all of that is out of
scope for us, as well as, as we
mentioned, the SMS or email
notifications. And so, as you're
writing, you're putting all of this
down, you're talking out loud with your
interviewer, you're probably doing this
a little bit more integrated, like
you're writing requirements, you're
asking questions, you're writing
requirements, uh, asking questions. I
just didn't want to fully simulate that
because I figured it could get boring
for you guys. But, this is important
that you've agreed upon this set of
requirements, and now this is what you
are going to build for the rest of the,
uh, the interview and nothing else.
Everything not mentioned here is
implicitly out of scope.
With our requirements in hand, the next
step in our delivery framework is our
entities. This is just figuring out what
objects we actually need and how they're
going to interact with another. They
become our classes in class design. The
way that I like to approach this is by
just looking for the nouns in our
requirements and considering each of
them one by one to see if they have any
place in our system. So if we look at at
our requirements here, entities, there
are a couple of things that stand out.
The first is that we're depositing
package. Whoa, bad typing. We're deposit
we're depositing packages. So we can put
package down first. Then we also have
these compartments that need to open. So
we'll put compartment down. These are
all held, of course, by an overall
locker, the Amazon locker. We don't want
to forget that one. And then we talk
about these access tokens. the access
tokens expire uh expiring being returned
to the user all of these things. So we
have this concept of an an access token.
Uh maybe honorable mention of course we
have the carrier or the driver and then
we also have the user who's going to
pick it up. I'll start with those two
because they're the most
straightforward. Um these are external
to our system. We don't need to model
the driver or the user. Of course some
user does have an Amazon account but
that doesn't matter here. We're going to
send them an email with the code.
They're going to come with that code.
They're going to type it in. Nowhere in
our system do we need to model or
maintain the state or behaviors of a
user. So, I'm going to cross that one
out. Delete it. Exact same thing is true
of the driver. So, I'm going to remove
them as well. Now, working our way back
up from the top. What about package?
This one's a little bit more interesting
and it seems obvious at first. We're
storing packages. So, we need a pocket
package class, right? Most candidates
add a package here. But what you'll find
especially as you get later on in the
design is that packages also are
external to our system. Some other
system is tracking the package ID, the
shipping information, the customer
details, what's in the package, all of
that. Our system only cares about one
thing when it pertains to the package.
It cares about its size because we need
that to know what size of compartment we
should assign it to. But that's it. So
package itself doesn't need to be a
class. It doesn't need to be its own
entity. it's just going to be an input
parameter to whatever our pickup or
whatever our deposit excuse me function
is. Okay, so that'll become more clear
as we get later on in the design, but
I'm going to remove it because we know
that that's or at least I know maybe
preemptively that that's not going to be
important. Uh compartment on the other
hand, this is truly central to our
system. It's the physical slot that
holds the package. Each one has a size,
an ID, an ability to open. They track
whether or not they're currently
occupied. So compartment will be
important. This will be a class in our
system. Locker two is an obvious one. It
orchestrates the whole thing. So when
the driver comes, they say, "I have a
medium package." Something needs to scan
through all of the compartments, find
which one is the best fit. Uh something
needs to handle generating the codes,
tying it all together, handling the
relationship and the relationships and
the orchestration. That's going to be
the locker. This is our entry point.
This is what the drivers and the users
interact with, our external users
interact with. And then you have this
access token. This is another
interesting one to think about. You
could say, well, isn't this just a
string? Like, it's a string. Sure. It
certainly needs to be stored somewhere,
right? This is state in our system. That
string is important. Upon uh deposit, we
generate one and we need to save it so
we can look it up on pickup. But it's
actually more than just a string. It's a
it's a bearer token, meaning that it has
an expiration time even. So, it
represents the right to a specific Oops.
It represents the right to a specific
compartment. And that's a concept that's
going to be worth modeling as its own
entity. So I'm going to keep it here as
an entity.
Now, as it pertain to package, maybe
even driver and carrier, I want to I
want to call out that you might be
thinking to yourself, how would I know
that already? And the answer is you
don't have to. Don't stress it. Put down
all the nouns here first. It's all good.
As you get modeling and as you get
further into your design with your class
design and your implementation, you're
going to learn more about the system.
And you can always come here and just
update the entities. that's a totally
natural, acceptable, you know, even
promoted and great thing to do in the
interview. So, don't over overstress it,
but this is a good time for you to just
get the lay of the land so that it gives
you a foundation as we move into class.
Now that we've settled on our three
entities, we need to define their
interface. This is the class design.
What state does each one hold and what
methods does it expose? I really like to
to work top down here and I recommend
that you do the same thing. So I want to
start with the orchestrator in our case
this is the locker and then move down to
the entities that it depends on. This
this allows us to define the highle
operations first which is going to
naturally reveal what the lower level
classes need to provide. So we can start
by uh sketching out the class design for
our locker. Um the way that I recommend
that you do this is just super
systematically. And so you're going to
look at your requirements first trying
to extract the state that your locker
needs to remember and then handle the
behaviors. So when we start with state,
we can look up here and we know that a
carrier or driver deposits a package of
a specific size. The system assigns an
available compartment of matching size.
So the system here is the locker. The
locker needs to be able to know which
compartments are available uh which
compartments exist in the system in
general all of this. And so the first
thing that we know then it needs to
remember is compartments.
Compartments. And this could just be a
list of compartment objects. These are
all of the compartments that are a part
of this locker system. All 50 or 100 of
them. Okay, straightforward enough.
Coming back to our requirements, we can
keep scanning here. And we might see
that the user receives the package by
entering an access token. The system
validates the code and opens this, etc.
And so another thing that our locker
here needs to track is all of the
available access tokens. What are all of
the access tokens that the locker has
handled out? And so we have access
tokens. And this could just be
access tokens, a list of access tokens.
Here are all the compartments our system
has. Here are all the access tokens
we've handed out. Um, if we want to
check on pickup, we would then need to
iterate over all of the access tokens.
find the one that matches the string
that the user input and then return that
to them. For what it's worth, this is
totally fine as it is right now with 50
or 100. So what if it's oven it's going
to go wicked quick and this doesn't
matter. What you could do and what I'll
end up doing here um just because I like
the way that it's clear about the intent
is that you could turn this into a map.
And so I can have a map of string which
is the code the access code to the
actual access token. And now when a user
comes for pickup and they give us that
string code. It's just an O1 lookup in
the map. Now importantly I'm not really
doing this because of the O1 nature. As
I said of N over 50 or 100, it's
effectively the same. I'm actually doing
this just because the intent becomes
super clear that what this does is it
maps directly from that string to the
token object. Um so that we can then
find what their compartment is. This is
a fun thing to call out in the
interview. Talk to your interviewer
about because of leak code. I find that
so many candidates are so hyper
optimized on these O of one efficiencies
that they never really think about the
scale or the clarity of their code and
so in this case this is where adding
efficiencies actually made our code I
think clearer but there are lots of
times when we might see examples of this
later on in this interview actually
where that's not the case so just keep
that in mind if you're ever doing an O1
optimization think first about
readability especially if that n is
small where small here is like under
hundreds of thousands okay um so that's
defined our state. Now, we want to do
that exact same thing with behavior. And
so, scanning back up here to our
requirements, we have that the carrier
deposits a package by specifying a size.
So, the main thing here that we have is
some deposit function. Deposit package
function. This is going to take in the
size so that we know which size
compartment to return to them. And then
it's going to return a string which is
just that access token that we'll figure
out how to or a parent caller will
figure out how to get to the user.
Right? So it's the first big public
function deposit package. What happens
next? Well, the user retrieves the
package by entering the access token.
And so we need some pickup function
here. So we need some pickup function
which takes in a string which is that
token code, right? And it's going to
return either void if it was successful
because it just opened that compartment
or an error if it was not successful.
And then the last public function that
we need if we scan through our
requirements is that staff can open all
expired compartments to manually handle
those packages. Again, this is the case
where they come there's a bunch of
packages that didn't get picked up. They
want all those doors to open so they can
put them in the truck and take them back
to the warehouse. So, we can name this
open expired compartments,
uh, for lack of a better name. And it's
going to return void because all that it
does is just open up those expired
compartments, the doors all open so that
they can be handled, right? Um, okay,
that's our class design for the locker.
Now, we can move on to our access token.
So, for the access token, what is the
class design for access token? Doing the
exact same thing. Starting with the
state, we can come up to our
requirements and we know that upon
successful deposit, an access token is
generated. Okay, not telling us too much
so far. User retrieves the package by
entering that access token code. Okay,
great. We know that it expires after 7
days and we know that it's of course
mapped to the compartment. And so all of
that leads us to first that code. This
is the string. This is the access token
code that the user gets sent and types
in. There's of course some expiration
timestamp here when the code expires and
then there's the compartment that this
access token accesses. So we have the
compartment there.
When it comes to the behaviors pretty
straightforward here we have the we want
to check if it's expired.
This is going to be true or false that
it's expired. This is what locker is
going to use on pickup in order to first
check is this access token expired.
Should I even allow this user to pick
this up? Next, we have the get
compartment. Same sort of thing. This is
what locker will need to call in order
to get the compartment. A simple getter
here. Capital compartment.
And then we should expose this get code
to because we need to get that string
code to send it to the user when
depositing the package. And so that is
going to be our full class design for
access token.
The last one is the easiest of the
group. Maybe it's it's the compartment.
It's pretty straightforward. We're going
to have compartment. Let me put an extra
new line there. And what all does the
compartment need to do? Well, the main
things that we know is that the
compartment has a size small, medium,
and large. Uh, and then it's going to
need to know whether or not it's
actually available. So, whether it's
occupied. So, we'll have the size, which
is going to be a size enum
of either small
of either small, medium, or large based
on the requirements. And then we're
going to know is it occupied? And that's
going to be a boolean true or false.
When we move on to the actual behaviors,
the interesting ones here, if you think
about what happens when we deposit a
package, looking at up our requirements,
when we deposit a package, we need to be
able to check is occupied. Is occupied.
That's going to return the boolean. It's
basically just the getter there. But
then we also need to be able to mark it
occupied
and that's just going to return void.
What else do we need to be able to do?
If we need to mark it occupied, then on
pickup or on staff clearing it, we also
need to be able to mark it free. So mark
it free and that's void. Importantly, we
talk about in our requirements that the
compartment opens, right? We open it. We
open it here for the staff as well. So
there's some function here which must
trigger the mechanics of the actual
compartment to open which is just some
open function which returns void. Of
course we won't be implementing this
because this will be some mechanical
component as I mentioned. And then some
more getters. We probably need to be
able to get that size. So get size
because we're going to check that when
we're trying to deposit the actual
package. Um so get size will return the
size.
Okay, that looks pretty good to me.
Important thing to note here is the
compartment is managing its own physical
state through this mark mark occupied
and this mark freed and it pri it it
provides this way to open itself with
this open function. This is nice
encapsulation. It knows whether or not
it's occupied. Um there is an argument
that this could be maintained by the
locker. The locker could have some
occupied map here. Again, that would
make things O of one as opposed to
iterating over the compartments. But
given that this is a matter of the
physical state of the compartment as
opposed to a relationship with regards
to the compartment, it makes the most
sense to model it here on the
compartment class directly.
With our class design in place, it's
time for us to move on to the actual
implementation. And so the way that this
usually works in LLD interviews is that
you're going to implement the most
interesting functions in pseudo code.
And when it comes to determining the
most interesting functions or methods,
you can propose this, especially in more
senior level interviews. Oftent times
it's the candidate proposing it. Uh in
intern, junior mid-level interviews,
typically it's the interviewer who's
saying, "Hey, these are the the subset
of methods I'd like you to implement,
but typically they're the most
interesting ones." I'll call out what
they are for this interview in just a
moment. Uh as I mentioned, we're going
to implement this in pseudo code. That's
what the majority of low-level design
interviews do. But roughly 30 35% of
low-level design interviews do want you
to implement in the language of your
choice. And that's why in the written
description or in the in the written
article linked in the description, we
have the implementation uh in each of
the major languages. So check that out.
But when we come back here, we can come
down to implementation.
And what you want to do when you get to
implementation is think about this
really sequentially as we always do,
right? You can serialize this to make it
it pretty straightforward. And the way
that you're going to do that is for each
of the core methods that we need to
implement, you're going to do two
things. You're going to first just
define the core logic. I'll show you
what this looks like in a second. And
then the second thing that you're going
to do is you're going to consider the
edge cases.
And you'll rinse and repeat for each of
the core methods. And it'll be it'll end
up being super straightforward to build
this from the ground up. And so the most
interesting methods for us in this case
actually all live in the locker. The
access token is just some getters. Is
expired is straightforward. We compare
the expiration time to now. These are
all just getters and setters. The open
one is the interesting one, but it's
mechanical, so it's not something that
we would implement. So those are the
three functions that we'll implement.
We're actually just going to implement
the locker class, the orchestrator in
our case. And so we can write that out.
class locker to start the
implementation.
And we're going to start with the posit
package
size.
And to do this, let's take the approach
that I just mentioned starting with
defining the core logic. And so if we
want the core logic, what are the steps
to depositing a package? Well, the very
first thing that you're going to do is
this function needs to be able to find
an available compartment. So find the
compartment of the right size. That'll
be step one. Once it found the
compartment, it needs to open the
compartment so the driver can go place
it in. The third thing that it'll do is
it'll need to mark this compartment.
Compartment is occupied
so that we don't end up opening this
again in the future. The fourth thing
that we'll need to do is think about how
does the user know that this is their
compartment. And so that'll start with
generating an access token for them.
Once we have that generated access
token, we'll need to store it.
Store the access token. That's what we
have that access token map for, right?
Access token mapping. So store that
access token and then return the access
code or the access token code so that it
can be sent uh to the user by SMS or
email or otherwise. Right? So that's our
our core logic. Um,
now we can either code that and then
think about what our corner cases are or
we can think about our corner cases
right out of the gate. I don't know that
there is much of a an ordering that
matters here. So, I'm just going to do
them right out of the gate because why
not consider edge cases or let me just
write edge cases. What are the edge
cases that can go wrong here? Uh, the
main one is what if there's no
compartments available of the requested
size? So, if we come here and there's no
none available, then that's an issue. So
none no compartment
of right size. And how are we going to
handle that? Well, we had said that we
were going to throw an error there. So
if we do, then we're going to throw
error. So open compartment. Sure, there
could be a mechanical issue there. I
might call that out to my interviewer,
but I'm going to assume that's out of
scope. That's not our problem. Mark this
compartment is occupied. That's fine.
Generating the access token. We
shouldn't have issues doing that.
storing the access token, we shouldn't
have issues unless for some reason we
ran out of memory. Um, but why would we?
There's Amazon lockers don't have a lot
of compartments. So that access token
map shouldn't get too large. And then
return the access token. So that's the
one edge case that I'm I'm concerned
about.
So we can get in here to actually
implementing it now in pseudo code.
Starting with number one, find a
compartment of the right size. Okay, so
we have the compartment equals get
available compartment of some size. So
I'm going to abstract that away for now
to a helper function. We'll implement it
maybe in just a moment. And then I'm
going to do compartment.open.
I'm going to call that open function on
the component or on the compartment,
excuse me. So that's step two. Step
three is mark the component uh the
compartment. Why do I keep doing that?
As occupied. So compartment dot we have
this mark occupied. So I'll mark it as
occupied.
The next one was to generate the access
token. So I'm going to have access token
equals generate
access token for a given compartment. So
this will be a helper function as well
too. This would be pretty
straightforward. It's going to generate
the access token using you know maybe
some cryp cryptographically secure uh
you know random hash and then we'll
create an access token and return that
access token object. So this is really
just using the constructor with that
code and the expiration is seven days
from here and we'll implement that in a
second. Uh and then I need to update my
mapping. So I have that access token
mapping and I'm going to have the access
token.get code that string. This is just
to give us that nice of one lookup that
we talked about earlier. And then I'm
going to set that access token. At the
end of all of that, I'll return access
token.get
code. I know some of you were thinking
you wrote that twice. Probably not the
best. So I'll do that. How's that?
Better. Now we don't repeat any code. So
return code. Um now in terms of that
edge case that would be here. So get
available compartment. Uh let's say that
this returns null in case that there is
no compartment and then I'll let the
caller handle it. In this case, we're
the caller. So get compartment equals
equals null. Then we are going to throw
an error. We'll throw an error. In this
case, maybe just no available
compartment
of that size, right? Something like
that.
So there's the the basic implementation.
You can see one thing that I did here is
that I used helper methods um private
helpers that made this more readable,
made it map onetoone with my core logic
and then I could turn to my interviewer
and say, "Hey, do you want me to
implement those private methods?" I can
if you'd like. In our case, let's go
ahead and do the get available
compartment because it's interesting
enough and pretty straightforward. So
get available compartment, it's going to
be private.
And what should that look like? That is
going to take in the size of course and
this is just going to
one. We're going to scan all
compartments
and then for each see if right size and
free
first that matches
return it. So that's our core logic
and there shouldn't be any error cases
here but let's evaluate after we write
it. And so what do we have? We have for
C in compartments
for C we're going to iterate over every
every compartment. If C do get size
equals equals the size which was our
input parameter from right here and
not C dot is occupied. So we're calling
the compartments is occupied there. Then
we're going to return C return the
compartment right that first one. And
then if nothing return null. So pretty
straightforward there. Um, error cases.
What can go wrong here? Get size that
shouldn't fail. Is occupied that
shouldn't fail. The thing that could go
wrong here would be that we don't find
any compartments. In that case, we
return null. So maybe I'll put that here
just for completeness. Edge cases
none available.
Return null. Then the other helper
function was generate access token. I'm
not going to implement that one because
it's it's so straightforward. Generate
the access token in the way that doesn't
matter. Some random something. um and
then simply call the constructor and
return it. Let's move on to the next
public function which is going to be
pickup. So we'll take the exact same
approach. Come back in here. Pick up.
Pickup takes in a string where that
string is that access token. So maybe
I'll do this just to be super clear. The
access code string or maybe just code
string
so that you know what I'm calling. Uh
let's start again with the core logic
then in our edge cases. So starting with
our core logic, what's the first thing
that we do again uh on pickup? Pause the
video here, think about it, and then you
can jump back in. Well, the very first
thing that we're going to do is we're
going to look up that code on the um in
that access token mapping. So look up
the code to get access token.
Okay, what's the next thing that we
should do? Well, we need to check I
guess that's maybe an edge case, so I'll
hold that off. Um but we need to get the
compartment associated with that access
token so that we can open the
compartment. Open the compartment.
And then once we've opened the
compartment then we assume that the user
grabs their package and we need to mark
the compartment as free and then remove
access code from map. Now you'll see
here that we're taking some liberties
here. We're assuming that the
compartment when it opens auto closes
like after say 30 seconds. This is
actually true of Amazon lockers for what
it's worth. They auto close. In reality,
there's probably some sensors here to
know that the user actually uh took the
package out. Maybe even some cameras,
whatever it may be. We're not going to
get that sophisticated. We're just going
to assume that we need to open the
compartment. The user will definitely
take the package. The compartment will
will auto close and we can keep moving
from there. So, that's the
simplification that we're going to make
in a real interview. You should check in
with your interviewer about that
simplification. In the case of this
interview, they're almost certainly
going to say yes, they don't need you to
implement all of those checks, but maybe
it's something that we discuss when we
get to the extensibility portion at the
end. So, that's our core logic. Then,
when we move on to our edge cases, what
could happen with the corner cases here?
Well, we called out one already, uh, or
I almost said it because it came to
mind, and that would be that the access
token is expired. That's a big one
there, right? I guess the first one will
be some validation of the code itself
like not empty maybe not necessary but
we'll do it for completeness and then if
the access token is expired throw if
it's empty throw and then what else
could potentially go wrong here um I
guess maybe even before that I'm just
going through these right you get the
compartment look up the code what if the
code is not in mapping basically it's
not empty but it's a code that we don't
have. We'll throw we don't have that
code. Open the compartment. Mark the
compartment as free. Remove the access
code from the mapping. We know that it's
already in there. So that should be
fine. So those are all of our cases. Um
let's go ahead then and implement this.
So what's the actual implementation look
like? Starting with the happy path. So
the happy path would be that we first
get the access token. So access token
mapping and we pass in the code which
was our input parameter. So look up the
code and get the access token. Okay,
from there we get the compartment and we
get that with access token
get compartment. Now we need to open the
compartment.
Okay, easy enough. Mark the compartment
is free because we assume that the user
we're making that simplification that
the user grabbed their package. And then
for that access token mapping, we now
need to remove the current code. And we
know that the code is valid because of
it already worked here. And so then edge
cases coming in. I guess that first
thing that we want to check is that if
code is empty for some reason they
passed in an empty string here. Uh then
we want to throw
error of invalid code. What if the code
is not in the mapping? Well, this would
be language dependent. So oftentimes
you'll you'll get a key error here. For
example, in Python, some exception will
be thrown. I'm going to simplify this
because we're in pseudo code. And I'm
just going to make the assumption that
this maybe would return null. And so
I'll say if this returned a null,
meaning that it wasn't valid or it
wasn't in there, then throw error.
Again, invalid code. And I'd talk to my
interviewer about this. I'd probably say
what I just said to you. This would be
language dependent. Depending on the
language, it might throw an error. I'm
going to assume for the case of our
pseudo code that it just returns null.
And then the next interesting check
here, let me add some lines to make it
more readable would be if access token
dot is expired.
So if it's expired then we'll throw
error
access
code expired.
Okay. So there's our full implementation
of pickup. Last up, we're going to take
on the final public method exposed by
locker, open expired compartments. As a
reminder, this is the function that's
going to be called by staff that comes
daily, weekly, whatever it may be, in
order to clean up and remove the
packages that didn't get picked up by
users and are past their expiration. And
so we'll take the same approach for this
one as we did for each of the others,
which is to define the core logic and
the corner cases. The core logic in this
case is that the first thing that
they're going to do is they or the first
thing the function is going to do is
scan through all accessed tokens in the
mapping.
Find the expired ones. So get all the
expired tokens uh for each of those. Get
the compartment
of each
and then open those compartments.
And then this is where they are going to
you know this is where they are going to
remove the packages external to us. And
then for us we are going to mark the
compartment as available again basically
not occupied. And then here's an
interesting question is do we remove it
from do we remove that access code from
the map? This is a place where I would
ask my interviewer. like, well, there's
a product trade-off here. I could remove
it from the map. What would happen then
if a user came after 10 days with that
same access code? Well, they would get a
they would get a invalid code as opposed
to an access code expired. So, maybe we
want to actually leave these here for a
while. Leave these here for a month or
two. Um, there's the memory
consideration. When will this map grow
so large that this actually matters? Um,
you could do some math and say probably
not for a while if there's only 50
compartments or so, even if these
packages are exchanging every single
day. U, you know, it would take a 100
days before you were at 5,000 things in
this map. Um, so I'd have this
conversation with my interviewer. I'm
going to say let's not actually remove
them. So decision no because I'd rather
users get the access code expired than
the invalid code one. So let's come in
and implement it now. open expired
compartments. We'll say for the token or
for the code and the access token in our
access token mapping. So here we're just
iterating over the keys and values of
our access token mapping. This can be
done in all of the major languages of
course. I'll say if the access
token dot is expired just to confirm
that's what we called it. access token
is expired. So if it's expired then we
are going to get the compartment
compartment equals access
token.getcompartment.
I'm going to open the compartment
compartment.open.
I'm going to
assume
the employee
removed them right and that this just
closes after 30 seconds and doors auto
close. That's the assumption that we
agreed upon a moment earlier. And then
I'm going to do compartment mark free.
Okay. And then we are going to not
remove from access token mapping so they
still get
correct error. And you you'd say to your
interviewer, well at some point we
should obviously clear these out. So
maybe we have some additional loop here.
So loop to clear out the access tokens
from the map that are I don't know three
months plus old something like that
you'd agree on with your interviewer but
that's the interesting bit um I realized
that we didn't talk about corner cases
and it's fine whether you want to
implement the core logic and then talk
about corner cases or do them all up
front. Um but in this case thinking
through them are there any if the map is
empty or nothing is expired that's fine
we just won't loop through anything here
right we'll still routine return return
void if everything is expired uh then we
would open all the compartments also
fine this method is also an important
meaning that if it's called multiple
times we're just going to open the same
compartments that's no big deal either
um so yeah I'm gonna I'm gonna say kind
of none that aren't are that aren't
explicitly or implicitly handled.
Cool. And just to be crystal clear in an
interview, I suggest you do this. I
think it helps you, but like this isn't
a requirement. Your interviewer is
checking your implementation. Uh I think
this will this will work for you, but
don't feel like you have to write these
down word for word uh or write down
exactly as I'm doing, though I suggest
that it's a pretty good approach to
take. Okay, so that should finish up our
our implementation. Hopefully you felt
like that was pretty straightforward.
The approach of writing core logic and
edge cases made it super linear and easy
to come up with whatever our
implementations were. We implemented in
effect the entire locker class. No
reason to implement access tuck in our
compartment for the reasons that we
mentioned. They're simple getters and
setters.
Next up, we're going to move to
extensibility. This is the last step in
the framework, and this is where your
interviewer might ask you some follow-up
questions to test how extensible your
design is. Note that if you're an
intern, junior, mid-level candidate,
there's a chance that your interview is
over at this point. There's no time left
and life is good. Don't don't stress it.
If you're senior or up, then you can
probably expect at least a handful of
questions here as it pertains to
extensibility. So, let's go through what
are the most common extension questions
to Amazon Locker. These are the
questions that I've heard uh candidates
report being asked to them um within
interviews. And so the first one that
we'll look at is what if we want to
allow a smaller package to use a larger
compartment as a fallback when all the
exact same size compartments are full.
So you have a small package, all the
small compartments are full. Can't we
just put that in a medium or a large
compartment? Second, how would you
handle compartments that are broken or
under maintenance? And then third, how
would you ensure packages are actually
deposited before you generate those
access tokens? So we can take each of
those one by one. Let's start with this
first one.
Uh, so assuming your interviewer just
asked you this, what would you say? It
should be pretty straightforward. You're
just going to need to change that get
available compartments function that we
had. So get available compartments
such that you have one additional outer
loop. And that outer loop is going to
just make sure that you iterate
sequentially over the sizes starting
from the size that matches first. And so
what might this end up looking like?
Well, you'd have maybe let's call this
now the requested size. And so you'd
have the sizes in order using those size
enums. And that would be small, medium,
and large. And then you'd get the index
of the one that they're asking. So you
know where to start in that actual
array. And so sizes in order dot index
of uh requested size. Okay. And so now I
know where to start in this. If I'm at
large, I'm going to start here and
there's nowhere else I can go. If I'm at
medium, I'm going to start here. And I
know that I have two I can do. If I'm
small, here on. And then we just add
that extra bit over the loop. So for I
from start index to sizes
in order.length
and just some pseudo code here. me
basically saying I'm going to iterate
over
I'm gonna iterate over this list
starting from that start index that we
found that's all that I'm saying here
and then the size that we care about now
is going to be the sizes in order of I
right so if in its example again if
we're starting with small then this
would be small and we're going to check
the size of small then we're going to
move to medium check the size of medium
then to large and the first one that
hits is going to be the one that ends up
being returned. And so in your actual
interview, if they ask you about this
extension, often times you don't end up
actually implementing it, um you would
just tell them basically describe what I
just did, saying you'd add another loop
outside of the get available
compartments loop that already exists in
order to iterate over the different
sizes starting from the size uh that
matches the requested size and then
moving up, right? But it's nice to
implement it so you guys can see exactly
what I mean. Next, how would you handle
compartments that are broken or under
maintenance? So, we can tackle that one.
And this is really testing basically
whether or not your compartment was
designed adhering to information expert.
The compartment owns and knows
everything about itself. It knows
whether it's occupied. It knows now in
this case whether it's broken or its own
status. And that should make this easy
to extend. And so the way that you would
describe this to your interviewer is
that currently we have basically boolean
state is occupied or not is occupied.
But now we've added a third bit of state
here. Basically an outofservice state.
And whenever that's the case, whenever
you're transitioning from a boolean
state to a multi-dimensional state
larger than two, then you typically want
to introduce an enum. And so what this
would look like in our case is that you
would end up introducing probably an
enum like compartment status. And then
your compartment class design would
update to something like this. Your
status is going to be the compartment
status of either available, occupied or
out of service. Maybe you have more
specific ones here like broken for some
reason or you know I don't know some
other set of failures that could happen.
But for our case we'll say out of
service. And then now instead of
checking is occupied here, you're going
to check is available where is available
is simply checking whether or not the
status is available and not occupied or
out of service. Right? And when you mark
as occupied, you set the compartment
status to occupied. When you mark as
available, you set it to available. Mark
is out of service, out of service. You
get the picture, right? So we've
replaced that boolean is occupied with
simply enum with with three possible.
Last up and maybe most interestingly, we
have how would you ensure packages are
actually deposited before generating the
access token. And so the issue that we
have right now is that we assume that
the driver put the package in. If we
come back up here to our deposit
package, we open the door, we mark it as
occupied, we generate the access token,
and we go on our way. But we don't
actually know if they ever place the
package. Like the worst case scenario
here would be that the driver got
distracted for whatever reason.
Something happened and now we've marked
a compartment as occupied that is not
occupied and we have an access token
mapping to a package that's not actually
in a compartment. Right? And so how
would you handle this both in real life
and in the interview is that you would
need to introduce what's called a
two-phed commit pattern. And so let me
write that down. Two-phased commit.
You'd introduce a two-phase commit where
instead of having deposit package like
we have now which does everything all at
once, we'd split it into two. You would
have a reserve compartment, reserve
compartment and a maybe confirm deposit.
And the confirm deposit here is
interesting because there's multiple
ways you could do this. Of course, in
the real system, this confirm deposit is
probably going to be based on sensors.
Like maybe did the weight of the actual
um you know content of the compartment
change? Maybe that's what triggers this
confirm deposit. Um, in our case, we'll
make it simple and we'll say that the
driver just has to click that. And so
the driver first reserves the
compartment. This would open the door
and maybe generate an access token and
store it not yet in our access token
mapping, but maybe somewhere else. Uh,
I'll show you that in a moment. And then
once they've placed the placed the
package, then they need to come back and
confirm to us that it was actually
deposited. At which point we mark the
compartment as occupied. Maybe even we
swing the door closed and we do all the
rest. And so let me show you what that
would actually look like here. I'm going
to copy and paste so you guys don't have
to see me writing the code. But the
updates are that to locker we're going
to have instead of just that deposit
function like we had before, we have
reserve compartment and that confirm
deposit and then maybe the ability to
cancel a reservation in case something
went wrong here. You could even have
this be based on a timeout. And then for
the compartment itself, we knew that we
had already added that compartment
status available, occupied, and out of
service. Maybe we add an additional one
here of reserved. Missed one there. So
we had an additional one of reserved
now. And the way that this flow now
changes, again, I'm going to paste this
in
is that first you call reserve
compartment with the size. This is going
to get the available compartment. It's
going to mark it as reserved. Now,
basically updating its status to just
reserved. It's going to open it. and we
generate a reservation ID and then keep
that in some reservation mapping. This
is important because that's what the uh
driver is then going to call confirm
deposit with is with that reservation
ID. How this happens a little hand wavy
for an interview, right? Maybe you show
them that screen on the or that code on
the screen and that's what they need to
end up typing in. Again, if you did this
based on weights or sensors, then it
probably would have an automatic mapping
from that compartment to the reservation
ID. Um, but we're going to be kind of
intentionally hand wavy here because
we're on this boundary of of physical
and software. But in any case, they have
that reservation ID in hand. Then maybe
they physically come back in after
placing the package, come back to the
screen, type in that reservation ID, and
what we do then is we get the
compartment associated with it. We now
mark it as occupied. We only now
actually generate that access token, add
it to our mapping, and then of course
whatever external code now sends it to
the user saying that they're ready. And
then we've removed the reservation bit
here. So the key bit, again, you
probably wouldn't implement this in an
interview, but the key bit here is that
you would explain to your interviewer
that you need some form of a two-phase
commit. This two-phase commit of
actually opening the compartment, and
then two, validating that something was
placed in the compartment. And only upon
validation do we kick off these
downstream flows such as marking the
compartment as occupied, generating the
access code, and subsequently sending it
to the user.
And that wraps up the complete design
for the Amazon locker. So we went from a
vague prompt to a concrete set of
requirements. We identified three core
entities. We designed their interfaces
with clean separation of concerns. Uh
and then we implemented the key
workflows and handled the common
extensibility patterns. Uh this design
followed solid OP principles. Of course
we had the information expert that was
the class that owns the data enforces
the rules. This was evident in
compartment. We had separation of
concerns. Uh we had the locker as the
orchestrator, the access token which
handled the access controls and the
compartment tracking physical state. Uh
we kept things simple. We had linear
scans, right? We didn't overoptimize in
any places because we know that the N
here in Amazon locker is quite small, 50
to 100 or so compartments. So if you
found this helpful, go ahead, as I've
said multiple times, check out the
written breakdown. It's going to be
linked in the description. Tons of other
low-level design content, primers on the
website, including a full breakdown on
concurrency, which just launched. So
please go check that out. Uh, as always,
thank you for watching and best of luck
with your interviews.